README.md, before:

![](https://gunivers.net/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/Glibs_banner.jpg)

# 🔎 What is it?

The Gunivers-libs is a modular library datapack designed to help mapmakers to implement common or complexe systems.

<div align="center">
Watch the presentation video<br>
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E2nKYEvjETk
</div>


# ⚙️ Features

🧮 Mathematical functions (sin, cos, exp, log, sqrt...)<br>
🏷️ ID system for entities<br>
🔀 Block <-> Score conversion system supporting BlockStates<br>
🧠 Pathfinding and other NPC AI basic tools<br>
🪃 Vectors management to give customized trajectories to your entities, which can be deflected by the wind, bounce on blocks etc.<br>
📎 Entity Link to synchronize the movement of entities, create moving entity cohérent structures or adding mirrors effects

And much more!

# 📚Documentation & Download

The documentation for all versions is provided on ReadTheDocs. [Click here](https://glib-core.readthedocs.io) to go to the documentation.

As the Gunivers Lib is a modular datapack, you don't need to download the entire project. Instead, you can select the modules you want to use and download them as one datapack from the [Glib Manager](http://glib.gunivers.net) website.

# 🤝 Follow and/or contribute

You can come on [our Discord](https://discord.gg/E8qq6tN) server to talk with us and/or take part of the project!

Commit message:

Contribute page (#12)
* Starting rewriting contributing (WIP)

* Removed makefile from gitignore

* New contributing page #2

* Update Contributing page #2

* Le soucis du détail messieurs

README.md, after:

![](https://gunivers.net/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/Glibs_banner.jpg)

# 🔎 What is it?

The Gunivers-libs is a modular library datapack designed to help mapmakers to implement common or complexe systems.

<div align="center">
Watch the presentation video<br>
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E2nKYEvjETk
</div>


# ⚙️ Features

🧮 Mathematical functions (sin, cos, exp, log, sqrt...)<br>
🏷️ ID system for entities<br>
🔀 Block <-> Score conversion system supporting BlockStates<br>
🧠 Pathfinding and other NPC AI basic tools<br>
🪃 Vectors management to give customized trajectories to your entities, which can be deflected by the wind, bounce on blocks etc.<br>
📎 Entity Link to synchronize the movement of entities, create moving entity cohérent structures or adding mirrors effects

And much more!

# 🔌Installation

Go to the [Glib Manager](http://glib.gunivers.net) website to select the version and the modules you want to use. You can check the modules' content in the [Documentation](https://glib-core.readthedocs.io).

Once you download the ZIP file, simply put it into you world's "datapacks" folder and, in-game, execute the `/reload` command.

⚠️ **Be sure that "cheats" are enabled**. Or, if you are on a server, be sure that `enable-command-block` is set on `true` in you `server.properties` file.

⚠️ **Some modules can be heavy**. Like the `glib.block` or `glib.item` that contain search trees. If you download them, the reload can take some time. If you edit the datapack, be sure to compress it in a zip file before uploading it somewhere. In the other cases, the search trees will slow down the upload due to thousands of little files.

# 📚Documentation & Help

The only link you need to know, which contain all the usefull links and informations about the project: [glib.gunivers.net](http://glib.gunivers.net).

But to spare you 2 clicks, here is the most important links:
- [Documentation](https://glib-core.readthedocs.io)
  - Including [FAQ](https://glib-core.readthedocs.io/en/latest/FAQ.html)
- [Our Discord](https://glib-core.readthedocs.io)

# 🤝 Follow and/or contribute

You can come on [our Discord](https://discord.gg/E8qq6tN) server to talk with us and/or take part of the project!

If you want to contribute, please read at least the "Getting started" section in the ["Contributing" page](https://glib-core.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Contributing.html) that contain all the development convention used in this project.
