docs/Block.md, before:

# Block

`glib:block/`: Systems for manipulating blocks

**Get block ID**

`get` : Gives the executing entity a score corresponding to a unique identifier of the block + blockstate located where the function is executed.
* The result is stored on the score `glib.blockId`

*Example:* 

Make the player named Steve retrieve the block id under his feet.
```
# Once
execute as Steve at @s positioned ~ ~-1 ~ run function glib:block/get

# See the result
scoreboard objectives setdisplay sidebar glib.blockId
```

**Set block from ID**

`set`: Places a block (and associated blockstates) corresponding to the identifier stored on the executing entity.
* The identifier must be given via the score `glib.blockId``.

*Example:*

Make the player named Steve put the block on top of him, corresponding to the identifier he has given on his score `glib.blockId`
```
# Once
execute as Steve at @s positioned ~ ~2 ~ run function glib:block/set

# See the result
# Look above Steve
```

**Convert block ID to item ID**

`convert_to_item`: Convert a block id stored on the executing entity to an item id
* The block identifier must be indicated by the `glib.blockId` score
* The item identifier will be stored on the score `glib.itemId`

*Example:*

Make the player named Steve get the item identifier corresponding to the block that is indicated by his score `glib.blockId`
```
# Once
execute as Steve run function glib:block/convert_to_item

# See the result
scoreboard objectives setdisplay sidebar glib.itemId
```

Commit message:

Detached Block converster to Glib addon

docs/Block.md, after:

# Block

`glib:block/`: Systems for manipulating blocks

You need to install the block converter addon: https://gitlab.com/Altearn/minecraft/datapack/Glibs/addons/block-converter

**Get block ID**

`get` : Gives the executing entity a score corresponding to a unique identifier of the block + blockstate located where the function is executed.
* The result is stored on the score `glib.blockId`

*Example:* 

Make the player named Steve retrieve the block id under his feet.
```
# Once
execute as Steve at @s positioned ~ ~-1 ~ run function glib:block/get

# See the result
scoreboard objectives setdisplay sidebar glib.blockId
```

**Set block from ID**

`set`: Places a block (and associated blockstates) corresponding to the identifier stored on the executing entity.
* The identifier must be given via the score `glib.blockId``.

*Example:*

Make the player named Steve put the block on top of him, corresponding to the identifier he has given on his score `glib.blockId`
```
# Once
execute as Steve at @s positioned ~ ~2 ~ run function glib:block/set

# See the result
# Look above Steve
```

**Convert block ID to item ID**

`convert_to_item`: Convert a block id stored on the executing entity to an item id
* The block identifier must be indicated by the `glib.blockId` score
* The item identifier will be stored on the score `glib.itemId`

*Example:*

Make the player named Steve get the item identifier corresponding to the block that is indicated by his score `glib.blockId`
```
# Once
execute as Steve run function glib:block/convert_to_item

# See the result
scoreboard objectives setdisplay sidebar glib.itemId
```
