docs/Item.md, before:

# Item

`glib:item/` : Systems allowing to manipulate items

**Get item ID**

`get`: Gives to the item executing the function a score corresponding to a unique identifier corresponding to its nature.
* The result is stored on the score `glib.itemId`
* Must be executed on an item only

*Example:* 

Make sure that all the items in the world have their identifier indicated by their score `glib.itemId`
```
# Once
execute as @e[type=item] run function glib:item/get

# See the result
scoreboard objectives setdisplay sidebar glib.itemId
```

**Set item from ID**

`set`: Create an item corresponding to the identifier stored on the executing entity.
* The identifier must be given via the score `glib.itemId``.

*Example:*

Make the player named Steve create an item in front of him, corresponding to the identifier he has given on his score `glib.itemId`
```
# Once
execute as Steve at @s anchored eyes positioned ^ ^1 run function glib:item/set

# See the result
# Look in front of Steve
```

**Convert item ID to block ID**

`convert_to_block`: Convert an item id stored on the executing entity to a block id
* The item identifier must be indicated by the `glib.itemId` score
* The block identifier will be stored on the score `glib.blockId`

*Example:*

Make the player named Steve get the block identifier corresponding to the item that is indicated by his score `glib.itemId`
```
# Once
execute as Steve run function glib:item/convert_to_block

# See the result
scoreboard objectives setdisplay sidebar glib.blockId
```

Commit message:

Detached Block converster to Glib addon

docs/Item.md, after:

# Item

`glib:item/` : Systems allowing to manipulate items

You need to install the block converter addon: https://gitlab.com/Altearn/minecraft/datapack/Glibs/addons/block-converter

**Get item ID**

`get`: Gives to the item executing the function a score corresponding to a unique identifier corresponding to its nature.
* The result is stored on the score `glib.itemId`
* Must be executed on an item only

*Example:* 

Make sure that all the items in the world have their identifier indicated by their score `glib.itemId`
```
# Once
execute as @e[type=item] run function glib:item/get

# See the result
scoreboard objectives setdisplay sidebar glib.itemId
```

**Set item from ID**

`set`: Create an item corresponding to the identifier stored on the executing entity.
* The identifier must be given via the score `glib.itemId``.

*Example:*

Make the player named Steve create an item in front of him, corresponding to the identifier he has given on his score `glib.itemId`
```
# Once
execute as Steve at @s anchored eyes positioned ^ ^1 run function glib:item/set

# See the result
# Look in front of Steve
```

**Convert item ID to block ID**

`convert_to_block`: Convert an item id stored on the executing entity to a block id
* The item identifier must be indicated by the `glib.itemId` score
* The block identifier will be stored on the score `glib.blockId`

*Example:*

Make the player named Steve get the block identifier corresponding to the item that is indicated by his score `glib.itemId`
```
# Once
execute as Steve run function glib:item/convert_to_block

# See the result
scoreboard objectives setdisplay sidebar glib.blockId
```
