docs/location.md, before:

# 📍 Location

`bs.location:`: The "Location" functions allow to manage the
position of entities via scores. It is thus possible to detect the
position of an entity or to place it at a position defined by a score.

## Add up coordinates

`add`: Adds the position passed via the scores `bs.loc[X,Y,Z]` to
the one where the command was executed, then teleports the entity to
this new position.

*Example:*

Move Aypierre by 3 blocks on the X axis, -2 on the Y axis and 5 on the Z
axis

```
scoreboard players set Aypierre bs.loc.x 3
scoreboard players set Aypierre bs.loc.y -2
scoreboard players set Aypierre bs.loc.z 5
execute as Aypierre at @s run function bs.location:add
```

## Get location

`get` : Detect the position of the entity (coordinates)

* Stores the values on the scores `bs.loc[X,Y,Z]` with a precision of 1:1.

*Example:*

Detect and display the position of the nearest spider:

```
# Once
execute as @e[type=spider,limit=1,sort=nearest] run function bs.location:get
tellraw @a [{"text": "X = ", "color": "dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@e[type=spider,limit=1,sort=nearest]", "objective": "bs. locX"}, "color": "gold"},{"text":", Y = ", "color": "dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@e[type=spider,limit=1,sort=nearest]", "objective": "bs. locY"}, "color": "gold"}{"text":", Z = ", "color": "dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@e[type=spider,limit=1,sort=nearest]", "objective": "bs.loc.z"}, "color": "gold"}]
```

## Get distance "as to at"

`get_distance_ata`: Calculates the distance between the source entity
and the execution position of the function.

* The result is returned on the score `bs.out.0`.
* * Be careful, this function calls `get_distance_squared_ata`, on which it applies the math/sqrt operation. It is therefore relatively heavy and is subject to the same constraint as `get_distance_squared_as_to_at` on integer size.

*Example:*

Calculate the distance between you and the nearest sheep:

```
# Once
execute as @s at @e[type=sheep,limit=1,sort=nearest] run function bs.location:get_distance_ata
tellraw @a [{"text": "Distance: ", "color": "dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@s", "objective": "bs.out.0"}, "color": "gold"}]
```

## Get distance squared "as to at"

`get_distance_squared_ata` : Calculates the squared distance between
the source entity and the execution position of the function.

* The result is returned on the score `bs.out.0`.

```{warning} 

The scores on Minecraft represent the size of an int variable in java. The latter
is huge, but not unlimited. However, calculations involving powers give
results that can quickly rise to more than billions, exceeding the size
limit of the variable. The game will then have no choice but to "loop"
the value (if you exceed the limit of 1, the variable will go negative).
```

*Example:*

Calculate the squared distance between you and the nearest sheep:

```
# Once
execute as @s at @e[type=sheep,limit=1,sort=nearest] run function bs.location:get_distance_squared_ata
tellraw @a [{"text": "Distance^2 : ", "color": "dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@s", "objective": "bs.out.0"}, "color": "gold"}]
```

## Get relative corrdinates "as to at"

`get_relative_ata` : Allows to obtain the position of the source
entity, relative to the execution position of the function.

* The result is then placed on the scores `bs.loc[X,Y,Z]`.

*Example:*

Get your position relative to the nearest Creeper:

```
# Once
execute as @s at @e[type=creeper,limit=1,sort=nearest] run function bs.location:get_relative_ata
tellraw @a [{"text": "Relative position : X=", "color": "dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@s", "objective": "bs.loc.x"}, "color": "gold"},{"text":", Y=", "color": "dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@s", "objective": "bs. locY"},"color":"gold"},{"text":", Z=","color":"dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@s","objective":"bs.loc.z"},"color":"gold"}]
```

## Is in cave?

`is_in_cave`: Allows to know if the location indicated by the
execution mosition of the function is located in a cellar.

* Stores the result on bs.out.0 (1 if in a cellar, 0 otherwise)

*Example:*

To know if the skeletons are in cellars or not:

```
# Once
execute as @e[type=skeleton] at @s run function bs.location:is_in_cave

# See the result:
effect give @e[type=skeleton,scores={bs.out.0=1}] glowing 1 1 true
```

## Set location

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} Classic

`set`: Allows to place the entity at a precise coordinate given via
the scores `bs.loc[X,Y,Z]`.

* This function has variations on x, y and z, useful for players, for whom the position can not be changed directly via the /data command.

*Example:*

Teleport in 15 100 25

```
# Once
scoreboard players set @s bs.loc.x 15
scoreboard players set @s bs.loc.y 100
scoreboard players set @s bs.loc.z 25
function bs.location:set
```

:::
:::{tab-item} Fast

`fast_set`: Changes the position of the executing entity to the X,Y
and Z coordinates respectively indicated by the scores ``bs.loc[X,Y,Z]``. To the user, this function is used in the same
way as the ``set`` function and produces the same results. The
differences are:

* This function goes through a succession of teleports and not via NBT modification, which makes it more cumbersome to execute
* It avoids the problem of latency in displaying the position of entities after modifications of their NBT (especially when there is a large number of entities).
* The system is limited to positions between -32000 and +32000 on each axis.

*Example:*

Place Boblennon at coordinate -5 63 26 (absurd case because the position
is hard-coded, so a simple /tp would suffice, but here the scores can be
modified unlike the parameters of a /tp command)

```
scoreboard players set Boblennon bs.loc.x -5
scoreboard players set Boblennon bs.loc.y 63
scoreboard players set Boblennon bs.loc.z 26
execute as Boblennon run function bs.location:fast_set
```

:::
::::

## Spread entity

:::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} Normal

**`bs.location:spread`**

Allows to randomly teleport an entity in a given area.

:Inputs:

        (execution) `as <entities>`
        : The entities you want to spread

        (score) `@s bs.in.[0,1]`
        : Repectively the X and Z coordinates of the center of the area (in blocks)

        (score) `@s bs.in.2`
        : The radius of the area (in blocks)

:Outputs:

        (state) @s location
        : The entity was moved to a random position in the area

:Example:

        Teleport to an area with a radius of 10 blocks, having as its center the
        coordinate X=15, Z=25

        ```
        # Once
        scoreboard players set @s bs.in.0 15
        scoreboard players set @s bs.in.1 25
        scoreboard players set @s bs.in.2 10
        function bs.location:spread
        ```

:::

:::{tab-item} Scale 3

**`bs.location:spread/accuracy/10-3`**

Allows to randomly teleport an entity in a given area.

:Inputs:

        (execution) `as <entities>`
        : The entities you want to spread

        (score) `@s bs.in.[0,1]`
        : Repectively the X and Z coordinates of the center of the area (in milliblocks)

        (score) `@s bs.in.2`
        : The radius of the area (in milliblocks)

:Outputs:

        (state) @s location
        : The entity was moved to a random position in the area

:Example:

        Teleport to an area with a radius of 10.003 blocks, having as its center the
        coordinate X=15.1, Z=25.502

        ```
        # Once
        scoreboard players set @s bs.in.0 15100
        scoreboard players set @s bs.in.1 25502
        scoreboard players set @s bs.in.2 10003
        function bs.location:spread/accuracy/10-3
        ```

---

<div align=center>

**💬 Did it help you?**

Feel free to leave your questions and feedbacks below!

</div>

<script src="https://giscus.app/client.js"
        data-repo="Gunivers/Glibs"
        data-repo-id="R_kgDOHQjqYg"
        data-category="Documentation"
        data-category-id="DIC_kwDOHQjqYs4CUQpy"
        data-mapping="title"
        data-strict="0"
        data-reactions-enabled="1"
        data-emit-metadata="0"
        data-input-position="bottom"
        data-theme="light"
        data-lang="fr"
        data-loading="lazy"
        crossorigin="anonymous"
        async>
</script>

Commit message:

📝 Added remark for negative radius behavior

docs/location.md, after:

# 📍 Location

`bs.location:`: The "Location" functions allow to manage the
position of entities via scores. It is thus possible to detect the
position of an entity or to place it at a position defined by a score.

## Add up coordinates

`add`: Adds the position passed via the scores `bs.loc[X,Y,Z]` to
the one where the command was executed, then teleports the entity to
this new position.

*Example:*

Move Aypierre by 3 blocks on the X axis, -2 on the Y axis and 5 on the Z
axis

```
scoreboard players set Aypierre bs.loc.x 3
scoreboard players set Aypierre bs.loc.y -2
scoreboard players set Aypierre bs.loc.z 5
execute as Aypierre at @s run function bs.location:add
```

## Get location

`get` : Detect the position of the entity (coordinates)

* Stores the values on the scores `bs.loc[X,Y,Z]` with a precision of 1:1.

*Example:*

Detect and display the position of the nearest spider:

```
# Once
execute as @e[type=spider,limit=1,sort=nearest] run function bs.location:get
tellraw @a [{"text": "X = ", "color": "dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@e[type=spider,limit=1,sort=nearest]", "objective": "bs. locX"}, "color": "gold"},{"text":", Y = ", "color": "dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@e[type=spider,limit=1,sort=nearest]", "objective": "bs. locY"}, "color": "gold"}{"text":", Z = ", "color": "dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@e[type=spider,limit=1,sort=nearest]", "objective": "bs.loc.z"}, "color": "gold"}]
```

## Get distance "as to at"

`get_distance_ata`: Calculates the distance between the source entity
and the execution position of the function.

* The result is returned on the score `bs.out.0`.
* * Be careful, this function calls `get_distance_squared_ata`, on which it applies the math/sqrt operation. It is therefore relatively heavy and is subject to the same constraint as `get_distance_squared_as_to_at` on integer size.

*Example:*

Calculate the distance between you and the nearest sheep:

```
# Once
execute as @s at @e[type=sheep,limit=1,sort=nearest] run function bs.location:get_distance_ata
tellraw @a [{"text": "Distance: ", "color": "dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@s", "objective": "bs.out.0"}, "color": "gold"}]
```

## Get distance squared "as to at"

`get_distance_squared_ata` : Calculates the squared distance between
the source entity and the execution position of the function.

* The result is returned on the score `bs.out.0`.

```{warning} 

The scores on Minecraft represent the size of an int variable in java. The latter
is huge, but not unlimited. However, calculations involving powers give
results that can quickly rise to more than billions, exceeding the size
limit of the variable. The game will then have no choice but to "loop"
the value (if you exceed the limit of 1, the variable will go negative).
```

*Example:*

Calculate the squared distance between you and the nearest sheep:

```
# Once
execute as @s at @e[type=sheep,limit=1,sort=nearest] run function bs.location:get_distance_squared_ata
tellraw @a [{"text": "Distance^2 : ", "color": "dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@s", "objective": "bs.out.0"}, "color": "gold"}]
```

## Get relative corrdinates "as to at"

`get_relative_ata` : Allows to obtain the position of the source
entity, relative to the execution position of the function.

* The result is then placed on the scores `bs.loc[X,Y,Z]`.

*Example:*

Get your position relative to the nearest Creeper:

```
# Once
execute as @s at @e[type=creeper,limit=1,sort=nearest] run function bs.location:get_relative_ata
tellraw @a [{"text": "Relative position : X=", "color": "dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@s", "objective": "bs.loc.x"}, "color": "gold"},{"text":", Y=", "color": "dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@s", "objective": "bs. locY"},"color":"gold"},{"text":", Z=","color":"dark_gray"},{"score":{"name":"@s","objective":"bs.loc.z"},"color":"gold"}]
```

## Is in cave?

`is_in_cave`: Allows to know if the location indicated by the
execution mosition of the function is located in a cellar.

* Stores the result on bs.out.0 (1 if in a cellar, 0 otherwise)

*Example:*

To know if the skeletons are in cellars or not:

```
# Once
execute as @e[type=skeleton] at @s run function bs.location:is_in_cave

# See the result:
effect give @e[type=skeleton,scores={bs.out.0=1}] glowing 1 1 true
```

## Set location

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} Classic

`set`: Allows to place the entity at a precise coordinate given via
the scores `bs.loc[X,Y,Z]`.

* This function has variations on x, y and z, useful for players, for whom the position can not be changed directly via the /data command.

*Example:*

Teleport in 15 100 25

```
# Once
scoreboard players set @s bs.loc.x 15
scoreboard players set @s bs.loc.y 100
scoreboard players set @s bs.loc.z 25
function bs.location:set
```

:::
:::{tab-item} Fast

`fast_set`: Changes the position of the executing entity to the X,Y
and Z coordinates respectively indicated by the scores ``bs.loc[X,Y,Z]``. To the user, this function is used in the same
way as the ``set`` function and produces the same results. The
differences are:

* This function goes through a succession of teleports and not via NBT modification, which makes it more cumbersome to execute
* It avoids the problem of latency in displaying the position of entities after modifications of their NBT (especially when there is a large number of entities).
* The system is limited to positions between -32000 and +32000 on each axis.

*Example:*

Place Boblennon at coordinate -5 63 26 (absurd case because the position
is hard-coded, so a simple /tp would suffice, but here the scores can be
modified unlike the parameters of a /tp command)

```
scoreboard players set Boblennon bs.loc.x -5
scoreboard players set Boblennon bs.loc.y 63
scoreboard players set Boblennon bs.loc.z 26
execute as Boblennon run function bs.location:fast_set
```

:::
::::

## Spread entity

:::{tab-set}

:::{tab-item} Normal

**`bs.location:spread`**

Allows to randomly teleport an entity in a given area.

:Inputs:

        (execution) `as <entities>`
        : The entities you want to spread

        (score) `@s bs.in.[0,1]`
        : Repectively the X and Z coordinates of the center of the area (in blocks)

        (score) `@s bs.in.2`
        : The radius of the area (in blocks)

:Outputs:

        (state) @s location
        : The entity was moved to a random position in the area

:Example:

        Teleport to an area with a radius of 10 blocks, having as its center the
        coordinate X=15, Z=25

        ```
        # Once
        scoreboard players set @s bs.in.0 15
        scoreboard players set @s bs.in.1 25
        scoreboard players set @s bs.in.2 10
        function bs.location:spread
        ```

:::

:::{tab-item} Scale 3

**`bs.location:spread/accuracy/10-3`**

Allows to randomly teleport an entity in a given area.

:Inputs:

        (execution) `as <entities>`
        : The entities you want to spread

        (score) `@s bs.in.[0,1]`
        : Repectively the X and Z coordinates of the center of the area (in milliblocks)

        (score) `@s bs.in.2`
        : The radius of the area (in milliblocks)

:Outputs:

        (state) @s location
        : The entity was moved to a random position in the area

:Example:

        Teleport to an area with a radius of 10.003 blocks, having as its center the
        coordinate X=15.1, Z=25.502

        ```
        # Once
        scoreboard players set @s bs.in.0 15100
        scoreboard players set @s bs.in.1 25502
        scoreboard players set @s bs.in.2 10003
        function bs.location:spread/accuracy/10-3
        ```

```{admionition} What if we put a negative radius?
:class: tip

Obviously, it doesn't make sens to have a negative radius. However, during tests, we tried for you... and it have a surprisingly cool effect!

Due to mathematical properties in the computation that are performed, if you put a negative radius, your entites will be teleported somewhere between `(x,z)` and `(x+radius,z+radius)` instead of `(x-radius,z-radius)` and `(x+radius,z+radius)`.

Who knows, maybe it can be usefull for someone, so we let it as it is ^^
```

---

<div align=center>

**💬 Did it help you?**

Feel free to leave your questions and feedbacks below!

</div>

<script src="https://giscus.app/client.js"
        data-repo="Gunivers/Glibs"
        data-repo-id="R_kgDOHQjqYg"
        data-category="Documentation"
        data-category-id="DIC_kwDOHQjqYs4CUQpy"
        data-mapping="title"
        data-strict="0"
        data-reactions-enabled="1"
        data-emit-metadata="0"
        data-input-position="bottom"
        data-theme="light"
        data-lang="fr"
        data-loading="lazy"
        crossorigin="anonymous"
        async>
</script>
