docs/modules/block.md, before:

# 🧱 Block

**`#bs.block:help`**

Manage blocks, including states and NBTs, while offering advanced tools for seamless transformations.

---

## 🔧 Functions

You can find below all functions available in this module.

---

### Fill

:::::{tab-set}
::::{tab-item} Block

```{function} #bs.block:fill_block

Fill all or parts of a region with a specific block.

:Inputs:
  **Storage `bs:in block.fill_block` [compound]**:
  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`block`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Block to fill the region with.
  *   - **`from`**&nbsp;[array]
      - Starting position (absolute coordinates only).
  *   - **`to`**&nbsp;[array]
      - Ending position (absolute coordinates only).
  *   - **`mode`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Mode used to set blocks [destroy|keep|replace] (default: replace).
  *   - **`limit`**&nbsp;[int]
      - Limit how many blocks can be set in a single tick (default: 4096).
  *   - **`masks`**&nbsp;[array]
      - Determine which blocks will be replaced.
  :::

:Masks syntax:
  Each entry must be a compound that respect the following format:

  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`block`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Block that act as a filter.
  *   - **`negate`**&nbsp;[bool]
      - Reverse the mask filter (default: false).
  *   - **`[x,y,z]`**&nbsp;[int]
      - Mask filter offsets (default: 0).
  :::

:Outputs:
  **State**: Blocks are placed in the world.
```

*Replace the top layer of dirt by grass:*

```mcfunction
# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.fill_block set value {block:"minecraft:grass_block",from:[-16,100,0],to:[-1,103,15],masks:[{block:"minecraft:dirt"},{block:"minecraft:air",y:1}]}

# Run the process
function #bs.block:fill_block
```

*Fill an area with stone but only by a few blocks each tick:*

```mcfunction
# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.fill_block set value {block:"minecraft:stone",from:[-16,100,0],to:[-1,103,15],limit:8}

# Run the process
function #bs.block:fill_block
```
::::
::::{tab-item} Type

```{function} #bs.block:fill_type

Fill all or parts of a region with a specific block type while trying to conserve states and NBTs.

:Inputs:
  **Storage `bs:in block.fill_type` [compound]**:
  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`type`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Block id to fill the region with.
  *   - **`from`**&nbsp;[array]
      - Starting position (absolute coordinates only).
  *   - **`to`**&nbsp;[array]
      - Ending position (absolute coordinates only).
  *   - **`mode`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Mode used to set blocks [destroy|keep|replace] (default: replace).
  *   - **`limit`**&nbsp;[int]
      - Limit how many blocks can be set in a single tick (default: 4096).
  *   - **`masks`**&nbsp;[array]
      - Determine which blocks will be replaced.
  :::

:Masks syntax:
  Each entry must be a compound that respect the following format:

  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`block`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Block that act as a filter.
  *   - **`negate`**&nbsp;[bool]
      - Reverse the mask filter (default: false).
  *   - **`[x,y,z]`**&nbsp;[int]
      - Mask filter offsets (default: 0).
  :::

:Outputs:
  **State**: Blocks are placed in the world.
```

*Replace oak_stairs by spruce_stairs while conserving states:*

```mcfunction
# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.fill_type set value {type:"minecraft:spruce_stairs",from:[-16,100,0],to:[-1,103,15],masks:[{block:"minecraft:oak_stairs"}]}

# Run the process
function #bs.block:fill_type
```
::::
:::::

> **Credits**: Aksiome

---

### Get

:::::{tab-set}
::::{tab-item} Block

```{function} #bs.block:get_block

Get all data related to the block at the current location, including its state and NBTs.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Position to get block data from.

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**:
  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`id`**&nbsp;[int]
      - A numeric id that represents the block type.
  *   - **`group`**&nbsp;[int]
      - Blocks within the same group share the same possible state.
  *   - **`block`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Full string representation of the block `type[state]{nbt}`.
  *   - **`type`**&nbsp;[string]
      - String representation of the id (e.g., `minecraft:stone`).
  *   - **`item`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Item string id associated with the block, if it exists.
  *   - **`state`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Represent the state of a block (e.g., `[shape=straight]`).
  *   - **`nbt`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Data tags used by block entities.
  *   - **`properties`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Block state as properties (used by entities like falling blocks).
  *   - **`iterable_properties`**&nbsp;[array]
      - An iterable array used to manipulate the state of the block.
  :::
```

*Get all data related to a block:*

```mcfunction
# Run the get function on a block
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_block

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block
```

::::
::::{tab-item} Type

```{function} #bs.block:get_type

Get the block type at the current location. While state, NBTs, and properties will be empty, the iterable properties still enable state transformations.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Position to get block data from.

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**:
  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`id`**&nbsp;[int]
      - A numeric id that represents the block type.
  *   - **`group`**&nbsp;[int]
      - Blocks within the same group share the same possible state.
  *   - **`block`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Full string representation of the block (only the type).
  *   - **`type`**&nbsp;[string]
      - String representation of the id (e.g., `minecraft:stone`).
  *   - **`item`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Item string id associated with the block, if it exists.
  *   - **`state`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Represent the state of a block (empty string).
  *   - **`nbt`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Data tags used by block entities (empty string).
  *   - **`properties`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Block state as properties (empty compound).
  *   - **`iterable_properties`**&nbsp;[array]
      - An iterable array used to manipulate the state of the block.
  :::
```

*Get only type data related to a block (no property value is selected):*

```mcfunction
# Run the get function on a block
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_type

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block
```

::::
:::::

> **Credits**: Aksiome, theogiraudet

---

### Manage state

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} Keep

```{function} #bs.block:keep_properties

Filter properties to keep only the desired ones.

:Inputs:
  **Macro var `properties` [array]**: List of properties to keep. Must be compounds with the `name` of the property.

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**: The `block`, `state`, `properties` and `iterable_properties` are updated to reflect this change.
```

*Keep only the facing and shape properties:*

```mcfunction
# Once (on stairs)
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_block

# Run the transformation
function #bs.block:keep_properties {properties:[{name:"facing"},{name:"shape"}]}

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block.block
```

:::
:::{tab-item} Merge

```{function} #bs.block:merge_properties

Merge state properties from the current location into the output. The merge occurs if the syntax is correct, regardless of logical coherence (e.g., using 'age' for different plants).

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Location of the block that act as input.

  **Macro var `properties` [array]**: List of properties to merge. Must be compounds with the `name` of the property.

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**: The `block`, `state`, `properties` and `iterable_properties` are updated to reflect this change.
```

*Merge the facing of a block onto stairs:*

```mcfunction
# Once (on stairs)
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_block

# Run the transformation (on a block with facing)
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:merge_properties {properties:[{name:"facing"}]}

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block.block
```

:::
:::{tab-item} Remove

```{function} #bs.block:remove_properties

Filter properties by removing the undesired ones.

:Inputs:
  **Macro var `properties` [array]**: List of properties to remove. Must be compounds with the `name` of the property.

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**: The `block`, `state`, `properties` and `iterable_properties` are updated to reflect this change.
```

*Remove the facing and shape properties:*

```mcfunction
# Once (on stairs)
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_block

# Run the transformation
function #bs.block:remove_properties {properties:[{name:"facing"},{name:"shape"}]}

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block.block
```

:::
:::{tab-item} Replace

```{function} #bs.block:replace_properties

Replace property values. Invalid values will not be replaced.

:Inputs:
  **Macro var `properties` [array]**: List of properties to replace. Must be compounds with the `name` of the property and the `value`.

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**: The `block`, `state`, `properties` and `iterable_properties` are updated to reflect this change.
```

*Replace the facing property value:*

```mcfunction
# Once (on stairs)
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_block

# Run the transformation
function #bs.block:replace_properties {properties:[{name:"facing",value:"east"}]}

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block.block
```

:::
:::{tab-item} Shift

```{function} #bs.block:shift_properties

Shift properties by any amount, allowing cycling through their values.

:Inputs:
  **Macro var `properties` [array]**: List of properties to shift. Must be compounds with the `name` of the property and the `by` amount (defaults to 1).

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**: The `block`, `state`, `properties` and `iterable_properties` are updated to reflect this change.
```

*Shift the facing property value by 2:*

```mcfunction
# Once (on stairs)
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_block

# Run the transformation
function #bs.block:shift_properties {properties:[{name:"facing",by:2}]}

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block.block
```

:::
::::

> **Credits**: Aksiome

---

### Manage type

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} Item to block

```{function} #bs.block:item_to_block

Get the block type from the given item string id.

:Inputs:
  **Macro var `item` [string]**: Item string id associated to a block type.

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**: Equivalent to the [`#bs.block:get_type`](#get) function.
```

*Get block type data for the stone item:*

```mcfunction
# Get block type data
function #bs.block:item_to_block {item:"minecraft:stone"}

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block.block
```

:::
:::{tab-item} Replace

```{function} #bs.block:replace_type

Replace the block type while trying to conserve the state. State is preserved only if the group of the output matches the input.

:Inputs:
  **Macro var `type` [string]**: String representation of the id (e.g., `minecraft:stone`).

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**: The `block`, `state`, `properties` and `iterable_properties` are updated to reflect this change.
```

*Replace oak stairs with spruce stairs, preserving the current state:*

```mcfunction
# Once (on oak_stairs)
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_block

# Get block type data
function #bs.block:replace_type {type:"minecraft:spruce_stairs"}

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block.block
```

:::
::::

> **Credits**: Aksiome

---

### Match

```{function} #bs.block:match

Determine if the block at the specified location matches the provided one.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Location of the block to check.

  **Storage `bs:in block.match.block` [string]**: Full string representation of the block to check against.

:Outputs:
  **Return**: Whether the check is a success or a failure (1 or 0).
```

*Check that the block at 0 0 0 matches the block at 0 1 0:*

```mcfunction
# Get block data at 0 0 0
execute positioned 0 0 0 run function #bs.block:get_block

# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.match.block set from storage bs:out block.block

# Run a command if it's a match
execute positioned 0 1 0 if function #bs.block:match run say It's a match
```

> **Credits**: Aksiome, theogiraudet

---

### Set

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} Block

```{function} #bs.block:set_block

Place a block at the current location.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Position to set the block to.

  **Storage `bs:in block.set_block.block` [string]**: Full string representation of the block to set.

  **Storage `bs:in block.set_block.mode` [string]**: Mode used to set the block [destroy|keep|replace] (default: replace).

:Outputs:
  **State**: A block is placed in the world.
```

*Place a block of stone at 0 0 0 by destroying the existing one:*

```mcfunction
# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.set_block set value {block:"minecraft:stone",mode:"destroy"}

# Run the function
execute positioned 0 0 0 run function #bs.block:set_block
```

:::
:::{tab-item} Type

```{function} #bs.block:set_type

Replace the block type at the current location while trying to conserve its state and NBTs.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Position to set the block to.

  **Storage `bs:in block.set_block.type` [string]**: Type (string id) of the block to set.

  **Storage `bs:in block.set_block.mode` [string]**: Mode used to set the block [destroy|keep|replace] (default: replace).

:Outputs:
  **State**: A block is placed in the world.
```

*Replace any stairs with oak stairs, preserving the current state:*

```mcfunction
# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.set_type.type set value "minecraft:oak_stairs"

# Run the function
execute positioned 0 0 0 run function #bs.block:set_type
```

:::
::::

> **Credits**: Aksiome, theogiraudet

---

### Spawn

:::::{tab-set}
::::{tab-item} Block display

```{function} #bs.block:spawn_block_display

Spawn a block display representing the given block.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Position where the entity will be summoned.

  **Storage `bs:in block.spawn_block_display` [compound]**:
  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`type`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Block type (similar to block output).
  *   - **`properties`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Block properties (similar to block output).
  *   - **`extra_nbt`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Additional NBTs to summon the entity with.
  :::

:Outputs:
  **State**: The entity is summoned.
```

*Summon a block display using the block at 0 0 0:*

```mcfunction
# Get block data
execute positioned 0 0 0 run function #bs.block:get_block

# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.spawn_block_display set from storage bs:out block

# Summon the block display
function #bs.block:spawn_block_display
```

::::
::::{tab-item} Falling block

```{function} #bs.block:spawn_falling_block

Spawn a falling block representing the given block.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Position where the entity will be summoned.

  **Storage `bs:in block.spawn_falling_block` [compound]**:
  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`type`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Block type (similar to block output).
  *   - **`properties`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Block properties (similar to block output).
  *   - **`extra_nbt`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Additional NBTs to summon the entity with.
  :::

:Outputs:
  **State**: The entity is summoned.
```

*Summon a falling block using the block at 0 0 0:*

```mcfunction
# Get block data
execute positioned 0 0 0 run function #bs.block:get_block

# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.spawn_falling_block set from storage bs:out block

# Summon the block display
function #bs.block:spawn_falling_block
```

::::
::::{tab-item} Solid block display

```{function} #bs.block:spawn_solid_block_display

Spawn a block display with a hitbox, representing the given block.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Position where the entity will be summoned.

  **Storage `bs:in block.spawn_solid_block_display` [compound]**:
  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`type`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Block type (similar to block output).
  *   - **`properties`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Block properties (similar to block output).
  *   - **`extra_nbt`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Additional NBTs to summon the entity with.
  :::

:Outputs:
  **State**: The entity is summoned.
```

*Summon a block display with a hitbox using the block at 0 0 0:*

```mcfunction
# Get block data
execute positioned 0 0 0 run function #bs.block:get_block

# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.spawn_solid_block_display set from storage bs:out block

# Summon the block display
function #bs.block:spawn_solid_block_display
```

::::
:::::

> **Credits**: Aksiome, theogiraudet

---

<div id="gs-comments" align=center>

**💬 Did it help you?**

Feel free to leave your questions and feedbacks below!

</div>

Commit message:

📝Add readonly warning, and quote

docs/modules/block.md, after:

# 🧱 Block

**`#bs.block:help`**

Manage blocks, including states and NBTs, while offering advanced tools for seamless transformations.

```{epigraph}
"Architecture is the thoughtful making of space."

-- Louis Kahn
```

---

## 🔧 Functions

You can find below all functions available in this module.

---

### Fill

:::::{tab-set}
::::{tab-item} Block

```{function} #bs.block:fill_block

Fill all or parts of a region with a specific block.

:Inputs:
  **Storage `bs:in block.fill_block` [compound]**:
  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`block`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Block to fill the region with.
  *   - **`from`**&nbsp;[array]
      - Starting position (absolute coordinates only).
  *   - **`to`**&nbsp;[array]
      - Ending position (absolute coordinates only).
  *   - **`mode`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Mode used to set blocks [destroy|keep|replace] (default: replace).
  *   - **`limit`**&nbsp;[int]
      - Limit how many blocks can be set in a single tick (default: 4096).
  *   - **`masks`**&nbsp;[array]
      - Determine which blocks will be replaced.
  :::

:Masks syntax:
  Each entry must be a compound that respect the following format:

  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`block`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Block that act as a filter.
  *   - **`negate`**&nbsp;[bool]
      - Reverse the mask filter (default: false).
  *   - **`[x,y,z]`**&nbsp;[int]
      - Mask filter offsets (default: 0).
  :::

:Outputs:
  **State**: Blocks are placed in the world.
```

*Replace the top layer of dirt by grass:*

```mcfunction
# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.fill_block set value {block:"minecraft:grass_block",from:[-16,100,0],to:[-1,103,15],masks:[{block:"minecraft:dirt"},{block:"minecraft:air",y:1}]}

# Run the process
function #bs.block:fill_block
```

*Fill an area with stone but only by a few blocks each tick:*

```mcfunction
# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.fill_block set value {block:"minecraft:stone",from:[-16,100,0],to:[-1,103,15],limit:8}

# Run the process
function #bs.block:fill_block
```
::::
::::{tab-item} Type

```{function} #bs.block:fill_type

Fill all or parts of a region with a specific block type while trying to conserve states and NBTs.

:Inputs:
  **Storage `bs:in block.fill_type` [compound]**:
  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`type`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Block id to fill the region with.
  *   - **`from`**&nbsp;[array]
      - Starting position (absolute coordinates only).
  *   - **`to`**&nbsp;[array]
      - Ending position (absolute coordinates only).
  *   - **`mode`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Mode used to set blocks [destroy|keep|replace] (default: replace).
  *   - **`limit`**&nbsp;[int]
      - Limit how many blocks can be set in a single tick (default: 4096).
  *   - **`masks`**&nbsp;[array]
      - Determine which blocks will be replaced.
  :::

:Masks syntax:
  Each entry must be a compound that respect the following format:

  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`block`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Block that act as a filter.
  *   - **`negate`**&nbsp;[bool]
      - Reverse the mask filter (default: false).
  *   - **`[x,y,z]`**&nbsp;[int]
      - Mask filter offsets (default: 0).
  :::

:Outputs:
  **State**: Blocks are placed in the world.
```

*Replace oak_stairs by spruce_stairs while conserving states:*

```mcfunction
# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.fill_type set value {type:"minecraft:spruce_stairs",from:[-16,100,0],to:[-1,103,15],masks:[{block:"minecraft:oak_stairs"}]}

# Run the process
function #bs.block:fill_type
```
::::
:::::

> **Credits**: Aksiome

---

### Get

:::::{tab-set}
::::{tab-item} Block

```{function} #bs.block:get_block

Get all data related to the block at the current location, including its state and NBTs.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Position to get block data from.

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**:
  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`id`**&nbsp;[int]
      - A numeric id that represents the block type.
  *   - **`group`**&nbsp;[int]
      - Blocks within the same group share the same possible state.
  *   - **`block`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Full string representation of the block `type[state]{nbt}`.
  *   - **`type`**&nbsp;[string]
      - String representation of the id (e.g., `minecraft:stone`).
  *   - **`item`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Item string id associated with the block, if it exists.
  *   - **`state`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Represent the state of a block (e.g., `[shape=straight]`).
  *   - **`nbt`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Data tags used by block entities.
  *   - **`properties`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Block state as properties (used by entities like falling blocks).
  *   - **`iterable_properties`**&nbsp;[array]
      - An iterable array used to manipulate the state of the block.
  :::
```

*Get all data related to a block:*

```mcfunction
# Run the get function on a block
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_block

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block
```

::::
::::{tab-item} Type

```{function} #bs.block:get_type

Get the block type at the current location. While state, NBTs, and properties will be empty, the iterable properties still enable state transformations.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Position to get block data from.

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**:
  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`id`**&nbsp;[int]
      - A numeric id that represents the block type.
  *   - **`group`**&nbsp;[int]
      - Blocks within the same group share the same possible state.
  *   - **`block`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Full string representation of the block (only the type).
  *   - **`type`**&nbsp;[string]
      - String representation of the id (e.g., `minecraft:stone`).
  *   - **`item`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Item string id associated with the block, if it exists.
  *   - **`state`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Represent the state of a block (empty string).
  *   - **`nbt`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Data tags used by block entities (empty string).
  *   - **`properties`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Block state as properties (empty compound).
  *   - **`iterable_properties`**&nbsp;[array]
      - An iterable array used to manipulate the state of the block.
  :::
```

*Get only type data related to a block (no property value is selected):*

```mcfunction
# Run the get function on a block
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_type

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block
```

::::
:::::

```{admonition} Read-only output
:class: warning

The `bs:out block` output is intended to be read-only. Modifying parts manually could lead to potential bugs. That's why the module provides numerous functions capable of making modifications to the output while preserving its integrity.
```

> **Credits**: Aksiome, theogiraudet

---

### Manage state

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} Keep

```{function} #bs.block:keep_properties

Filter properties to keep only the desired ones.

:Inputs:
  **Macro var `properties` [array]**: List of properties to keep. Must be compounds with the `name` of the property.

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**: The `block`, `state`, `properties` and `iterable_properties` are updated to reflect this change.
```

*Keep only the facing and shape properties:*

```mcfunction
# Once (on stairs)
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_block

# Run the transformation
function #bs.block:keep_properties {properties:[{name:"facing"},{name:"shape"}]}

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block.block
```

:::
:::{tab-item} Merge

```{function} #bs.block:merge_properties

Merge state properties from the current location into the output. The merge occurs if the syntax is correct, regardless of logical coherence (e.g., using 'age' for different plants).

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Location of the block that act as input.

  **Macro var `properties` [array]**: List of properties to merge. Must be compounds with the `name` of the property.

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**: The `block`, `state`, `properties` and `iterable_properties` are updated to reflect this change.
```

*Merge the facing of a block onto stairs:*

```mcfunction
# Once (on stairs)
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_block

# Run the transformation (on a block with facing)
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:merge_properties {properties:[{name:"facing"}]}

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block.block
```

:::
:::{tab-item} Remove

```{function} #bs.block:remove_properties

Filter properties by removing the undesired ones.

:Inputs:
  **Macro var `properties` [array]**: List of properties to remove. Must be compounds with the `name` of the property.

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**: The `block`, `state`, `properties` and `iterable_properties` are updated to reflect this change.
```

*Remove the facing and shape properties:*

```mcfunction
# Once (on stairs)
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_block

# Run the transformation
function #bs.block:remove_properties {properties:[{name:"facing"},{name:"shape"}]}

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block.block
```

:::
:::{tab-item} Replace

```{function} #bs.block:replace_properties

Replace property values. Invalid values will not be replaced.

:Inputs:
  **Macro var `properties` [array]**: List of properties to replace. Must be compounds with the `name` of the property and the `value`.

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**: The `block`, `state`, `properties` and `iterable_properties` are updated to reflect this change.
```

*Replace the facing property value:*

```mcfunction
# Once (on stairs)
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_block

# Run the transformation
function #bs.block:replace_properties {properties:[{name:"facing",value:"east"}]}

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block.block
```

:::
:::{tab-item} Shift

```{function} #bs.block:shift_properties

Shift properties by any amount, allowing cycling through their values.

:Inputs:
  **Macro var `properties` [array]**: List of properties to shift. Must be compounds with the `name` of the property and the `by` amount (defaults to 1).

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**: The `block`, `state`, `properties` and `iterable_properties` are updated to reflect this change.
```

*Shift the facing property value by 2:*

```mcfunction
# Once (on stairs)
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_block

# Run the transformation
function #bs.block:shift_properties {properties:[{name:"facing",by:2}]}

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block.block
```

:::
::::

> **Credits**: Aksiome

---

### Manage type

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} Item to block

```{function} #bs.block:item_to_block

Get the block type from the given item string id.

:Inputs:
  **Macro var `item` [string]**: Item string id associated to a block type.

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**: Equivalent to the [`#bs.block:get_type`](#get) function.
```

*Get block type data for the stone item:*

```mcfunction
# Get block type data
function #bs.block:item_to_block {item:"minecraft:stone"}

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block.block
```

:::
:::{tab-item} Replace

```{function} #bs.block:replace_type

Replace the block type while trying to conserve the state. State is preserved only if the group of the output matches the input.

:Inputs:
  **Macro var `type` [string]**: String representation of the id (e.g., `minecraft:stone`).

:Outputs:
  **Storage `bs:out block` [compound]**: The `block`, `state`, `properties` and `iterable_properties` are updated to reflect this change.
```

*Replace oak stairs with spruce stairs, preserving the current state:*

```mcfunction
# Once (on oak_stairs)
execute positioned ~ ~ ~ run function #bs.block:get_block

# Get block type data
function #bs.block:replace_type {type:"minecraft:spruce_stairs"}

# See the result
data get storage bs:out block.block
```

:::
::::

> **Credits**: Aksiome

---

### Match

```{function} #bs.block:match

Determine if the block at the specified location matches the provided one.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Location of the block to check.

  **Storage `bs:in block.match.block` [string]**: Full string representation of the block to check against.

:Outputs:
  **Return**: Whether the check is a success or a failure (1 or 0).
```

*Check that the block at 0 0 0 matches the block at 0 1 0:*

```mcfunction
# Get block data at 0 0 0
execute positioned 0 0 0 run function #bs.block:get_block

# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.match.block set from storage bs:out block.block

# Run a command if it's a match
execute positioned 0 1 0 if function #bs.block:match run say It's a match
```

> **Credits**: Aksiome, theogiraudet

---

### Set

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} Block

```{function} #bs.block:set_block

Place a block at the current location.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Position to set the block to.

  **Storage `bs:in block.set_block.block` [string]**: Full string representation of the block to set.

  **Storage `bs:in block.set_block.mode` [string]**: Mode used to set the block [destroy|keep|replace] (default: replace).

:Outputs:
  **State**: A block is placed in the world.
```

*Place a block of stone at 0 0 0 by destroying the existing one:*

```mcfunction
# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.set_block set value {block:"minecraft:stone",mode:"destroy"}

# Run the function
execute positioned 0 0 0 run function #bs.block:set_block
```

:::
:::{tab-item} Type

```{function} #bs.block:set_type

Replace the block type at the current location while trying to conserve its state and NBTs.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Position to set the block to.

  **Storage `bs:in block.set_block.type` [string]**: Type (string id) of the block to set.

  **Storage `bs:in block.set_block.mode` [string]**: Mode used to set the block [destroy|keep|replace] (default: replace).

:Outputs:
  **State**: A block is placed in the world.
```

*Replace any stairs with oak stairs, preserving the current state:*

```mcfunction
# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.set_type.type set value "minecraft:oak_stairs"

# Run the function
execute positioned 0 0 0 run function #bs.block:set_type
```

:::
::::

> **Credits**: Aksiome, theogiraudet

---

### Spawn

:::::{tab-set}
::::{tab-item} Block display

```{function} #bs.block:spawn_block_display

Spawn a block display representing the given block.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Position where the entity will be summoned.

  **Storage `bs:in block.spawn_block_display` [compound]**:
  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`type`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Block type (similar to block output).
  *   - **`properties`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Block properties (similar to block output).
  *   - **`extra_nbt`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Additional NBTs to summon the entity with.
  :::

:Outputs:
  **State**: The entity is summoned.
```

*Summon a block display using the block at 0 0 0:*

```mcfunction
# Get block data
execute positioned 0 0 0 run function #bs.block:get_block

# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.spawn_block_display set from storage bs:out block

# Summon the block display
function #bs.block:spawn_block_display
```

::::
::::{tab-item} Falling block

```{function} #bs.block:spawn_falling_block

Spawn a falling block representing the given block.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Position where the entity will be summoned.

  **Storage `bs:in block.spawn_falling_block` [compound]**:
  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`type`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Block type (similar to block output).
  *   - **`properties`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Block properties (similar to block output).
  *   - **`extra_nbt`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Additional NBTs to summon the entity with.
  :::

:Outputs:
  **State**: The entity is summoned.
```

*Summon a falling block using the block at 0 0 0:*

```mcfunction
# Get block data
execute positioned 0 0 0 run function #bs.block:get_block

# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.spawn_falling_block set from storage bs:out block

# Summon the block display
function #bs.block:spawn_falling_block
```

::::
::::{tab-item} Solid block display

```{function} #bs.block:spawn_solid_block_display

Spawn a block display with a hitbox, representing the given block.

:Inputs:
  **Execution `at <entity>` or `positioned <x> <y> <z>`**: Position where the entity will be summoned.

  **Storage `bs:in block.spawn_solid_block_display` [compound]**:
  :::{list-table}
  *   - **`type`**&nbsp;[string]
      - Block type (similar to block output).
  *   - **`properties`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Block properties (similar to block output).
  *   - **`extra_nbt`**&nbsp;[compound]
      - Additional NBTs to summon the entity with.
  :::

:Outputs:
  **State**: The entity is summoned.
```

*Summon a block display with a hitbox using the block at 0 0 0:*

```mcfunction
# Get block data
execute positioned 0 0 0 run function #bs.block:get_block

# Setup the input
data modify storage bs:in block.spawn_solid_block_display set from storage bs:out block

# Summon the block display
function #bs.block:spawn_solid_block_display
```

::::
:::::

> **Credits**: Aksiome, theogiraudet

---

<div id="gs-comments" align=center>

**💬 Did it help you?**

Feel free to leave your questions and feedbacks below!

</div>
